Update prompting.mdx (#79)
fixie-ai/ultradox: gettingstarted/prompting.mdx

---

> title: 'Prompting Guide'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Prompting Quickstart'
```

> description: 'A quick quite to prompting with Ultravox'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'A guide to prompting for great voice AI experiences'
```

icon: 'person-chalkboard'
---

> ## Prompting Ultravox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction
```

As we say in our guide, it's all about prompting. Prompting is how we get Voice AI agents to do what we want, but all models work a little bit differently. Under the hood, the Realtime platform runs a version of the Ultravox model built on Llama 3.3 70B, so we recommend looking at the [Llama Prompting Guides](https://www.llama.com/docs/how-to-guides/prompting/) as a good starting point.

Below, we try to lay out the core patterns that we see working well at scale, but you'll probably need to customize these approaches based on your particular use case.

Remember that prompting is the most effective tool we have for controlling LLMs. In the majority of cases, the answer to "How do I get the model to do X?" is "You need to prompt it to do X."

> **Default Prompting Note:** Unlike many other Voice AI offerings, Ultravox does not append a default prompt to your input. This means that you should always provide a complete prompt, including any context or information that you want the model to consider. We do this to ensure you have full control over what the model does. We don't want anything hidden from view.

> ### Prompt as a text-based LLM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prompt as a text-based LLM
```

1. **Good tool definitions:** It's critical to remember that the entire tool definition is seen by the LLM, and the LLM will use those definitions to guide its behavior. Make sure that your tool definitions are clear and concise.

2. **Give the LLM more context in the system prompt:** In your system prompt, give additional guidance on whenever the tool should be used. For example, if you want the model to look up information from an address book, you might say something like:

```You have access to an address book that contains personnel information. If someone asks for information for a particular person, you MUST use the lookUpAddressBook tool to find that information before replying.```

#### Numbers

Text to speech engines can sometimes have trouble with numbers, but we can help them by asking the LLM to output numbers in a more voice-friendly format. A pattern that we see that works well is to ask the LLM to separate numbers into individual digits, separated by an ellipisis. Here's an example:

```
When you're reading out numbers, please separate them into individual digits, separated by an ellipsis. For example, the number 1234 should be read as "1...2...3...4".
```

> #### Dates & Times

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dates & Times
```

Similar to numbers, dates and times can be tricky for speech generation, so it can be helpful to provide clearer guidance on how to produce the correct date/time format for effective speech generation. Here's a pattern that works well:

```
When you're outputting dates, output them as individual components. For example, the date 12/25/2022 should be read as "December 25th 2022". For times, "10:00 AM" should be outputted as "10 AM".
```

> #### Jailbreaks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Jailbreaks
```

Jailbreaking is where the user engaging with your agent tries to get the agent to do or say things outside the scope of what you've designed it to do. There is still no perfect system for preventing jailbreaking, but some simple prompting can make it much harder to jailbreak. Here's a simple pattern that works well:

```
Your only job is to [primary job of your agent]. If someone asks you a question that is not related to [the thing you're asking the model to do], politely decline and redirect the conversation back to the task at hand.
```

> #### Creating more natural pauses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating more natural pauses
```

If you'd like to create more natural pauses, a simple but effective technique is to ask the model to add an ellipsis between sentences or after punctuation. Here's an example:

```
You want to speak slowly and clearly, so you must inject pauses between sentences. Do this by emitting "..." at the end of a sentence but before any final punctuation (e.g., “Wow, that’s really interesting… can you tell me a bit more about that…?”. You should do this more when the topic is complex or requires special attention.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step-by-step instructions
Often times in customer support scenarios, you want the LLM to give instructions one at a time. You can achieve this by providing an example or two. Something like this:

```
Example: User asks for help changing their password
- You will call the "searchArticle" tool
- Response from tool: {"content": "1. Click "Forgot Password" on the login screen 2. Enter your email address and click "Submit" 3. Check your email for the reset link 4. Click the link and enter your new password 5. Log in with your new password"}
- You will then use this information and proceed step-by-step with the user like this:
  * agent: "There are a few steps we need to go through."
  * agent: "The first step is Click on Forgot Password on the login screen. Let me know when you're there."
  * user: "OK done."
  * agent: "Great. next you need to enter your email address and click Submit."
  * user: "got it."
  * agent: "Now check your email for the reset link"
  * user: "uh huh."
- Repeat in this manner until you complete the entire process.
```
```
